OK,
moving on to the next lesson.
This lesson is also about four Loop and its extension off the last lesson that recover here
we are going to cover again.
A couple of for scripts.
One scripts that we wanted to core is how we could rename files that has dot txt file
extension to dot none,
or any fire that you wanted to change with a different name.
The second script,
a little color,
is check to see if files exist.
Now the file exists.
Sometimes you have to actually log into,
ah,
difference over,
and you need to find out if,
in a difference over a file exist on that's over as well or not.
Um,
so you could create that script in there and you could check that both of these scripts are
have a very,
um,
very much application to the to the really real life,
because I actually worked on many of these these type of task where I have to change or
rename the files or I have to check if those files exist or not.
So I'm gonna cover these ah,
again real example.
A log into my next machine straight here.
Um I am blogging is myself.
And of course,
I am in my home directory and I'm gonna create a new ah script,
and I'm gonna name it rename files,
and we're gonna start with our same practice.
It's only gonna take a few seconds.
So please get into the habit of doing Dad date description,
which is for me,
the most important one.
This script will pre name Clough's ending with dot txt,
um,
and then I have to do the modified day.
That chair's since this is a new one.
I'll just put the new the same day.
Okay.
The script the first group was going to do is it's gonna put create a variable for So this
time I'm gonna pick a different variable I'm gonna put like a fly and lame.
You could put I again if you want to and asterix dot txt So it's gonna look for all the
files in the current directory.
Ah,
that has the ending name with dot Txt and Estrich is you know,
it's a wild card is gonna look for that and is gonna put in a container name.
Finally.
Okay,
it's gonna do that.
What else you want to do now I want to do,
do move whatever comes from that container.
So whatever comes from the container,
name it.
Rename it to file name percent Sign changed right here to none and done so once again,
it's gonna get the list of all the dot text fall and put it in a container and the
container name is father.
Then it's going to do is more that list off all the files that are in that container and
it's gonna rename it to.
And this is the This is the string or Syntex that you have to pick,
which is dollar um,
curly braces file name,
which is the name of our actual file.
And this percent sign is actually gonna It's actually like a wildcard dot Texas saying
Whatever that is our text,
change it to dot none and then be done with Get proper to Cuba.
Permission.
Now let's run it.
And it's It's not the right one renamed for us and it say's cannot stat.
Astra got text.
No such father directory.
Perfect.
It means it works how it works.
Why did they give us our message?
Because we do not have any file in our current directory that ends with dot txt.
So if you do ls minus l astra dot txt See,
nothing is in there,
so we will create some falls Touch.
I'm Rhonda Txt.
Um f cyl dot txt or any dot txt.
So we created these three falls and these three files will be renamed to dot Done when I
run the script.
So let's run the script.
Renew Falls hit,
Enter it Ran and let's verify it.
And it did change from Doc.
Txt two dot Not so.
That's one of the example you could change,
uh,
multiple files with your script in one shot.
Next one we have that we want to cover is check to see if I'll exist.
This one,
I use it.
I have used it in the past as well,
many times.
So let's do copy Rename Wells and I wanted to do check files copied.
Saved us time.
So in r b I files,
I leave everything in there,
except this script will check four files that it's changed a description.
Everything stays same and removed the script and start the new scripts.
And now what are the files that you want to check.
So I want to first create a variable in the variable.
Just put files equal Put double coat slash at sea password.
Every system has that right slash etc.
Group.
Every system should has that too.
If it's not,
then who?
You have a problem.
Right?
So that's what we wanted to make sure.
Shadow See?
And and a switch dot com at sea S s h d underscore.
Ssh!
Underscore,
I think.
And the last one,
I just want to put fake its just a fake.
I wanted to see if the script actually finds it.
Hey,
this file doesn't exist.
All right,
so these are the files of closed the coats.
These these are all the files and putting in a variable called files.
Good.
Variable is defined now,
what you want to do.
But of course,
it will put an empty line four.
Now you're creating another area before file in files.
So all these files that are in this variable now,
I want you to put those files coming from this variable into another variable.
And everybody called is just file lowered his father do If now here's a new one.
If exclamation Mm file this is going to do is if the flowers are coming here that do not
exist.
Exploration means do not equal to the file that I have specified.
Then echo the file do not exist that go another empty line,
see?
And Okay,
so basically,
what I'm saying is,
if you go and look for all these files right here in this container and then put all these
file in a new container and then do is test if these files actually exist in this system
and if they do not exist,
then tell me they do not exist.
If they exist,
don't worry about it.
Don't tell me So that's why I didn't use else command.
Let's run it.
And now check falls.
Okay.
You see?
Right here It's his at sea s message de un discourses,
sage convict do not exist at sea.
Fake do not exist.
Okay.
Yes.
So SS issue underscore cessation.
Convict that file.
I actually there is a fall there,
but I actually by mistake the wrong one.
Actually,
it is at sea as his age.
Really?
I am not ruled.
That's why it's not going.
ASUs each Ssh config.
Yes,
this is the actual fought so.
But I haven't specified wrong here.
That's why it says do not exist.
That's how the script is doing.
So what's why would we need that script?
Because,
as I said before,
Ah,
what was that?
Sorry.
That said before,
many times you do have to go into a different system to check if those files exists and
make sure even if it's the application file or database fall,
you need to verify those file exists.
And that's why you're not having the problem,
because file do not exist.
That's how you run the script.
You could specify different files to test on it and see how it works.